>> Can plant medicines heal
longstanding sociopolitical
conflicts?
A new study brought
together groups
with a deep-rooted
hatred of one another
for an ayahuasca ceremony.
Could this be the solution
for a more peaceful world?
This is Gaia News.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Plant medicines, including
ayahuasca and psilocybin
from magic mushrooms,
have become breakthrough
therapeutic modalities for
treating depression, anxiety,
and addiction as taboos
around psychedelics
fade and scientists study
their effects in sanctioned
clinical settings.
And now, a group of scientists
from the US, UK, and Israel
have begun to look at ayahuasca
as a tool for resolving
intercultural conflict.
By bringing together Israelis
and Palestinians for a group
ceremony, the researchers
looked for signs
of reconciliation and intergroup
contact between the subjects.
Dr. Maya Shetreat is a
neurologist and herbalist
specializing in
plant medicine and
psychedelic assisted therapy.
She had this to say
about the recent study.
>> We should definitely be
able to experience significant
shifts in identity politics
because we know that
psychedelic medicines like
ayahuasca or psilocybin have
these ego-dissolving properties
that change the way our brains
see us, see our identity, and
kind of perceive us as being
separate from one another.
So theoretically, it's
possible that any kind
of identity issues, whether
it be political or otherwise
could be more in a
place of resolution
because people can
see past differences.
>> Results of this recent study
proved to be profound with
several participants reporting
visions in which they relive
trauma from the perspective
of those from the opposite
culture.
And in one instance,
a participant
was able to embody
a single experience
from both perspectives.
But while these results
held significant weight
for those involved,
how does this
translate at a larger scale?
>> You know we have
to ask the question,
is it really necessary for
everyone to be in ceremony
and go through a psychedelic
experience in order to create
change?
And I think there's an
argument that actually it
doesn't take that many people.
Not everybody has
to be in that role
and enter that liminal space.
The people who are
called and the people
who are motivated to
engage with the medicine
have those revelations,
integrate, take action,
and actually in that
way lead other people
to see those connections
that other people might not
be able to see.
>> There's a belief held by
many within the plant medicine
community that there is a
sentience in these plants that
has worked to form a bond
between the indigenous cultures
and the modern Western world.
Are these plants trying
to communicate and work
with us to actively heal our
collective consciousness?
>> So yes, I do think that
plant medicines like the ones
we're talking about,
like psychedelics,
do have some intention in their
desire to be in relationship
with humans, and that's why
they emerge in this way.
>> In modern society, we are
bombarded with constant streams
of information from the many
channels of communication we
have access to.
But within that, comes a
deluge of competing values
and viewpoints
vying to be heard.
How can plant medicine
ceremonies and studies
like these help human
communication in this era?
>> I think that this study in
particular really demonstrates
that engaging with psychedelics,
whether it even be through
microdosing or macrodosing, may
be able to help draw people out
of that black-and-white
oppositional polarized way
of being, and help them
come back into that sense
of connection and see beyond
the differences that we have.
So I think it's a really
profound study in that way.
And I think it's very hopeful.
>> As scientists continue
to study the myriad of ways
in which plant medicines are
able to heal psychological
trauma and rifts
between global cultures,
it will be interesting to see
how these studies manifest
into potential solutions and
how they will be received within
the mainstream culture.
For now, at least we
can see their efficacy
within small groups willing
to participate and open
their minds to new outcomes
toward peace building.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.